The world is fundamentally at an inflection point, and we should leverage that to the fullest extent possible to do things other than preserve the staus quo, because this was not a good place before this nonsense either.

The fact that Vishnal's plan is to create a meat grinder of mortals in a megadungeon to create champions to resist outsiders instead of, say, trying to formulate a systemic way to keep them the fuck out, or trying to fundamentally alter the world so that we don't need to throw meat into the grinder and can instead train lads the normal way instead of scrambulating them, means that he's fundamentally the wrong person for every part of this job. Elodin would be fine with the plan until he heard this part, at which point he's fundamentally against Vishnal being attached to this in literally any way because this nonsense proves his judgement is not to be trusted. Like, would consider violence to remove Vishnal from consideration. Because this is just mass murder masquerading as necessity, and it's one bad emperor from being genocide.

Glissa needs to go, immediately, as far as possible, never to return, into the ground if possible, and into the sun if not. If we're attempting to create a new, better world for the people that live here instead of for the Gods to play in, we really shouldn't keep around the person who gave them the damn job. She's more dangerous to this world than they are by a large margin, and the fact that she agreed to any part of this plan is further evidence of that.

Moghedian needs to be watched very carefully for basically all eternity, and is probably more effort than she's worth, but she's not so irredemable as to not be afforded a second chance. If she becomes a problem we can go solve it.

Lanfear deserves a normal life. Good on her. Elodin will go out of his way to help her out, and also finds her infinitely interesting because of how much history she's seen and how much magic she knows. Would probably try to get her to come visit him regularly if she's interested. She also deserves like, a real friend.

Glissa should not be allowed to take Graendal anywhere. She should be sent into the sun, in front of witnesses, like any other execution. We don't give Glissa weapons of mass destruction. What the fuck is wrong with everyone right now, I know we're all tired but holy fuck Glissa has literally killed billions of people through consequences of her actions and we're just letting her do whatever she wants and take hostages as weapons why the FUCK.

The gods can reincarnate if they want, but Elodin will make it known to all of them (except Liira and maybe Leira) that if they come near him or anyone he cares about he'll burn their souls out of their eye sockets, and that he thinks they should spend their lives doing pennance for the people that died because of their cowardace, especially once he learns that this has happened repeatedly. He'll keep an eye on them, and if any of them attempt anything shady he'll drop everything to remove them from the planet. Into the sun with them.

Almost every bit of this is a terrible plan, and it's so bad that he's willing to let mass murderers go live normal lives because there's more substantial issues with every single thing on this list. Glissa is incredibly powerful and owes this world a debt that she can't possibly repay, so she should be doing whatever we ask, and we can ask for better than this.